---
title: "You know what’s really cool?"
date: 2011-01-14 17:18:51 +0000
external-url: http://www.projectskyway.com/you-know-whats-really-cool-collaboration/
hash: ec0a93c94ee3cb1dd100b9b22b23c0f7
annum:
    year: 2011
    month: 01
hostname: www.projectskyway.com
---

In the recent hit movie “Social Network,” Justin Timberlake’s character (Sean Parker) uttered the now classic line, “A million dollars isn’t cool. You know what’s cool? A billion dollars.”  While there is nothing wrong with making a billion dollars…and this line fits perfectly with the scene in the movie…the reality is most entrepreneurs will be lucky (and probably quite happy) if they ever make a million dollars, especially with the first company they start.  Yet the media loves to write about the 20 something college dropout that raised millions (or billions) of dollars to fund the latest tech start-up. It is like business porn. It is almost as if dropping out of college became a requirement to receive seed funding.  What kind of values are we promoting to the young people in our society when we always depict the business world as a get-rich-quick-scheme? What happens to the 99% of people who go into the business world and realize the people they read about in the media or see in movies are as rare as lottery winners?  The reality is the vast majority of all entrepreneurs build their fortunes through long and hard work, and often after experiencing quite a bit of failure along the way.  There is a myth that innovation comes primarily from the profit motive and from the competitive pressures of a market society. Innovation doesn’t come just from giving people monetary incentives. It comes from creating environments where their ideas can connect. Innovation comes from passionate and connected groups of people. Ideas aren’t self-contained things; they are more like eco systems and networks that travel in clusters.  Software people do it all the time. They share ideas, what works, what doesn’t, etc., and then together they build it because they want to, not because they have to. They love it and get energy from collaborating.  Much like the concept of open source software development, that’s what we’re doing at Project Skyway. We are not only connecting entrepreneurs with business leaders, mentors, advisors, and investors, but we are connecting entrepreneurs with each other and being open about our process.  The most important aspect of Project Skyway will be the mentorship and community we are building. During their infancy, businesses are fragile, and the failure rate is high. All entrepreneurs starting businesses will hit many walls at the beginning. This is why it is important for entrepreneurs to have access to mentors, as well as a community of entrepreneurs, to help them when they hit a wall. 
