---
title: "Playboy Launches SFW Site TheSmokingJacket"
date: 2010-07-20 16:25:46 +0000
external-url: http://gigaom.com/2010/07/20/419-playboy-launches-sfw-site-thesmokingjacket/
hash: d5333d0ba05a55e617863fd1f3637123
annum:
    year: 2010
    month: 07
hostname: gigaom.com
---

As speculation swirls around Playboy (NYSE: PLA) founder Hugh Hefners bid to take to the company privateand the counteroffersthe safe-for-work site, TheSmokingJacket.com, is now live. Jimmy Jellinek, Playboys chief content officer, heralded the release of the non-nude site by offering this statement: Cube dwellers and office drones alike shall rejoice at this fun, sexy, satirical antidote to the drudgery of the work day.  Of course, readers of Maxim.comwhere Jellinek was formerly editorand other lad mags, have long had that, ah, antidote. And, just as importantly for Playboy, theyve also had the advertisers.    In an interview with the AP, Jellinek, who also serves as editorial director of Playboy magazine and its website, says that Playboy.coms audience mostly logs on after work. And despite claiming a respectable 6 million monthly uniques, Playboy felt it should make more of an effort to reach their male audience during the day, when theyre most likely to be online.    TheSmokingJacket.com will offer a range of content throughout the day in categories that include Girls, Entertainment, Sex, Videos and Lifestyle. The site will also put a premium on humor well as non-nude photos from Playboys archives. The AP has had a look aroundthe site might be safe for work, but since Im covering paidContent Mobile at the moment, Im not sure its safe for conferencesand noted that some examples include women in swimsuits having a tug-of-war).   And for those who just want to read it for the articles, some of the first posts include a list of signs that show a guy has given up on trying to bed women, such as wearing Velcro sneakers and pants with elastic waistbands.    On the hidden end, the Playboy name is not featured prominently on the site in order to ensure corporate internet blockers dont prevent its audience from getting through. But just in case, Jellinek is keeping expectations in check, saying that if TheSmokingJacket draws at least 1 million uniques in its first month, he regard it as an early sign of success. Release   Related   FriendFinder Counters Hefner; Offers $210 Million For Playboy Updated: Hefner Offers To Take Playboy Private; Penthouse Making A Move? Updated: Playboy Plans Free, Safe-For-Work Site
