---
title: "United!"
date: 2010-07-29 14:39:57 +0000
external-url: http://www.woothemes.com/2010/07/united/
hash: 02173c999f962479b34d1f0e6ec79d79
annum:
    year: 2010
    month: 07
url-parts:
    scheme: http
    host: www.woothemes.com
    path: /2010/07/united/

---

Microblogging is still catching flame like a house on fire. After our foray into this type of themes – and the popularity of  Retreat amongst others – we’re now venturing into that field again with our latest theme, Unite.
Unite was collaboratively designed by the pixel perfectionist Rogie King and it offers you a sweet, minimalist canvas on which you can create and showcase your content. The minimalist design is unobtrusive, which also means that your content can do all of the shining (here’s a reminder to implement a great “content is king” strategy). So we’re saying that this makes Unite great, but from your viewpoint this may all seem a tad dull… Maybe this would’ve been true had we not spent a lot of time adding some new bling to other aspects of the theme…
Commenting + InteractionWhen Rogie first pitched this idea to us, we weren’t sure that we’d even be able to pull it off, but the WooTeam’s collective development skill has shone through once again to deliver something that is truly unique and dare I say: fancy pants.
Creating valuable reader interaction & engagement.
The above image probably best explains what we’ve created: not only can you now use threaded comments to reply to a specific comment (this is rather “old” WP functionality), but you can also reference / CC any other commenters in your comment by simply starting to type the “@” symbol. Typing the “@” symbol will bring up a list of commenters’ names who you can then reference in your comment (it includes “auto-complete” functionality) and they will also receive e-mail notifications of that comment if they have chosen to do so. Try this out for yourself if you don’t believe us.
The aim of this functionality was to increase & improve the interaction on your blog and keep more of those conversations happening on your domain; instead of elsewhere (i.e. Twitter / Facebook / other social networks).
Video content in an alternative style.
AJAX-y GoodnessYou will also see that we’ve included AJAX commenting in Unite, which means that you can preview your comment (as you type it), whilst also publishing your comments without having to reload the page. Both of these improves both speed & usability, so that you can interact more in less time.
In addition to this AJAX-y awesomeness, we’ve also included further AJAX functionality for the display of more posts on a page. How many times do you get to the bottom of the page, only to have to click through to the next page, wait for it to load a new page and then continue your browsing. Well now you would just get to the bottom of the page, click the “More Posts” button and we’ll display those posts without having to reload the page. Quick & nifty.
Custom TaxonomyUnite "Tumblogs" Taxonomy
Also new in Unite (and this will be rolled out to our other tumblog themes in the very near future, along with our enhanced dashboard publishing widget) is the use of a custom taxonomy “Tumblogs” for your tumblog posts. This means that you can post content to this taxonomy separately to other content (i.e. normal posts if you wanted to) that may appear on your blog, which in turn means that you can use Unite on an old blog of yours without having to worry about the older content not being compatible with Unite.
We trust that you will enjoy some of these new features that are making a debut here on WooThemes via Unite. As always, we’re happy to push a few boundaries and try out a few different things in keeping all of our users happy & on their toes with new awesomeness.
A dark, alternate style to Unite. Look at those LastFM, Flickr and live Twitter feeds - pixel perfected!
All that is left to do is to check out Unite’s demo or do some further reading on the nitty-gritty & features of Unite.

