---
title: "#84 T-Shirts"
date: 2008-03-07 09:41:06 -0600
external-url: http://stuffwhitepeoplelike.wordpress.com/2008/03/07/84-t-shirts/
hash: 49a0875f82d6b9f1199acb6e20e2b199
year: 2008
month: 03
scheme: http
host: stuffwhitepeoplelike.wordpress.com
path: /2008/03/07/84-t-shirts/

---

Many people and cultures view t-shirts as a simple piece of apparel that can be acquired cheaply and worn in casual situations.  For white people, it’s never that easy. The t-shirt is one of the most complex and expressive items in their entire wardrobe.

Your choice of casualwear says a lot about you, and there are stringent rules and hierarchies associated with T-shirts that you must know before venturing into any white-dominated social situations.

T-shirts fall into three categories: vintage, new, and unacceptable, with the latter category compromising the bulk of the world’s supply.   Within each category lies another, more precise subset of rules and rankings. Make no mistake, this is complicated.

The most prized t-shirt category is vintage.  As shown earlier, white people need authenticity like they need oxygen and to have an original vintage t-shirt from the 1970s or 1980s is a very powerful social status symbol.  The ideal shirt will have a funny logo, a year attached to it, and will be as thin as rice paper.  In the event that two white people have shirts that meet this criteria, the superior ranking is given to the person who paid the least for the shirt.  Acquiring a shirt at a vintage clothing store is seen as less respectable than sorting through racks at the Goodwill.

The second category of t-shirt is new and there really are only two options.  The first is American Apparel, a company that constantly reminds you it is based in downtown Los Angeles.  They are considered an acceptable white company since they produce things that are very simple, but also very expensive.  The second acceptable new shirt is Threadless.  This Chicago-based company produces artistic and funny t-shirts that are acceptable for concerts, Whole Foods and 80s night. White people like these shirts so much because they are designed by white people, for white people.  Sort of like a white FUBU.

Finally, and perhaps the most important to be aware of, is the unacceptable category of t-shirts.  There are a few simple rules to follow in order to avoid wearing the wrong t-shirt.  First, if it’s made of a stiff, thick cotton, throw it in the garbage immediately.  White people t-shirts must be made of the softest, finest organic cotton.   This is law.  Unless it is vintage,  the shirt cannot be made in a foreign country (unless you can certify its labor conditions).  The shirt cannot contain a current sports logo.  Shirts with sports logos are acceptable, but they must contain a logo that hasn’t been used in 15 years. Last and not least, it cannot be baggy.  Your t-shirt must be tight-fitting for both style and mating purposes.

It is also imperative to understand that faux vintage shirts (”Getting Lucky in Kentucky”) are completely unacceptable.  They are beloved by the wrong kind of white people, and must be avoided at all costs.

This information is best applied when you are planning on attending a social gathering.  Your t-shirt says a lot about you, and if it’s the right kind of shirt it will set white people at ease.  Also, asking a white person “where did you get that shirt?” will allow them to tell you a detailed story about how they acquired it.  This will enable them to assert why their shirt has a higher ranking than yours and they won’t view you as a threat.

Never underestimate the importance of t-shirts to white culture.  It is an essential tool in determining the social rank, desirability, and value of a white person.

       
