---
title: "Energized about our first Google PowerMeter partners"
date: 2009-05-21 04:37:03 +0000
external-url: http://googleblog.blogspot.com/2009/05/energized-about-our-first-google.html
hash: 6cc108c5d138be979af40015f3ce8bff
---

Earlier this year I blogged about energy information and a tool our engineers developed called Google PowerMeter, a Google gadget that can show consumers their personal electricity consumption right on a home computer. Our software relies on "smart meters" (or other metering devices) as a data source. Over the past several months we've been looking to partner with utilities that are installing (or have already installed) this equipment in their customers' homes. We're energized by our very first Google PowerMeter partners:San Diego Gas & Electric® (California)TXU Energy (Texas)JEA (Florida)Reliance Energy (India)Wisconsin Public Service Corporation (Wisconsin)White River Valley Electric Cooperative (Missouri)Toronto Hydro–Electric System Limited (Canada)Glasgow EPB (Kentucky)              Our initial partners include utilities with millions of customers as well as smaller ones. They are rural and urban, privately held and municipally run. Some are in the United States, others in Canada and India. They all have one thing in common — a desire to serve their customers by providing access to detailed information that helps save energy and money. For now, Google PowerMeter is only available to a limited group of customers, but we plan to expand our roll out later this year. Our utility partners are leading the charge to make the electricity grid smarter and we look forward to working with them and others.In addition to utilities, we're also seeking partnerships with companies that can enable the implementation of our software. Our first such partner is Itron, a leading meter and data management company that serves over 8,000 utilities and is helping some of their customers, including San Diego Gas & Electric, integrate with Google PowerMeter. If you're a utility or company with a smart meter project that might be interested in plugging in to our efforts, visit our website for more information.Posted by Ed Lu, Engineering team
 

