---
title: "Wii"
date: 2007-12-27 02:33:50 +0000
external-url: http://www.petersens.ws/2007/12/wii
hash: 2ce0b7dde6e7bf82038dbe8e7d87fd83
---

The Petersen household has the Wii.  If your like me, playing video consoles was about 15 years in the past back when the Sega Genesis was the leading edge.  I have to tell you the Wii level sets the playing field for everyone.  In our house my son is very good with the video games and it can be a challenge to play against him.  The full motion action that is required to play really resets the playing field so the novice gamer has a chance to compete.

I want to have the Wii installed in the basement.  However I have to finish painting the basement and I have to build a set of shelves to hold the games.  So for the short term  I put the Wii on the TV in the family room.  Playing the Wii on a 52 TV is an experience in of itself.

The first game we played was bowling.  All four of us played.  What a trip to be swinging your arm to get speed on the ball.   The second game wasDance Dance Revolution.  This game has a floor mat and you have to dance to songs.  Youre rated on your timing and accuracy of your steps. Watching each family member take ther turn only to have the Wii tell us we failed at dancing.  It was hysterically.  By the fourth or fifth attempt we were able to be rated a D or C on the beginner level.  If you want a good workout, I would recommend Dance Dance Revolution.  After each game you could feel the tiredness in your legs and your breathing increase.  We tried one game at expert level.  It was a cruel joke to even attempt it.   I would love to see someone play the expert level and be rated decently.

Ive heard that a few people have been injured in playing the Wii.  After playing it for a few hours, I can honestly see where bodily injury could occur.
