---
title: "Transmit 3.6.7 is available"
date: 2008-11-26 12:00:00 +0000
external-url: http://www.tuaw.com/2008/11/26/transmit-3-6-7-is-available/
hash: 7675c7b98d92950d23f2e1611aa621cd
year: 2008
month: 11
scheme: http
host: www.tuaw.com
path: /2008/11/26/transmit-3-6-7-is-available/

---

Filed under: Software, Internet, Internet Tools
 Earlier this week, one of the applications that I use every day, Panic's Transmit, was updated to version 3.6.7. Since the previous version was 3.6.6, this seems like a minor update, but it does bring some welcome bug fixes, including


    Re-worked preview drawer to avoids possible transfer stalls
    Fixed S3 uploads with files greater than 2 GB
    Fixed a problem in which files may be deleted when moving them into a subfolder
    Improved S3 copied URLs when connecting to the EU S3 server

There's more, of course, and you can read the full change log here. We've written about Transmit several times, but I'll briefly tell you why it's my choice for an FTP application. First, changing permissions is ridiculously simple. The droplets are great as well. If you're unfamiliar, Transmit will let you create shortcuts to often-used directories on your server and save them as "droplets" on your desktop.I also appreciate the tight integration with another Panic product, Coda. Simply right-click on a html or PHP file, for instance, and select "Edit with Coda."Finally, the UI is so friendly and Mac-like that even a person who has never used an FTP app before will feel comfortable.Thanks, Robert!
TUAWTransmit 3.6.7 is available originally appeared on The Unofficial Apple Weblog (TUAW) on Wed, 26 Nov 2008 07:00:00 EST.  Please see our terms for use of feeds.
Read | Permalink | Email this | Comments


 

