---
title: "May/June update"
date: 2008-06-19 17:01:45 +0000
external-url: http://www.hillsidelounge.com/wp/2008/06/20/mayjune-update
hash: 3dffb9e382c60ba0d0c898e956c6f103
---

  I can’t believe it’s been almost 2 months since the last update, loads of fun photos. Since end of April when things were “a bit crazy” it’s just gotten nuttier and busier. Family events, job events, and some borderline silly injuries on the sporting fields for me have rounded out the last two months. Even when the curveballs are flying the Olivers pack in some fun times as well. May and June have had plenty going on with Mother’s Day, Fathers Day, trips to Malaysia for Grandma and Grandpa’s new grass, Jacob going from crawling to walking, trips to the zoo and beach, and backyard parties at the Mullanes. Jacob’s new favorite activities are being chased around the table, playing in water anywhere and anytime, making random noises, and throwing the ball like a pro. Ok, like Chuck Knoblock but it’s improving. Far from important but super annoying is the recent demise of our carry everywhere Casio Exilim. Likely impact is that June photos might be a bit on the thin side.
The summer is really looking promising. To start the boys are off for a week of sailing next week off the Thai Island of Phuket for a week. The wives and kids, should be about 10 of us in total, take over a Villa Thursday in Phuket. The sailors arrive Friday to tell highly improbable stories and on Sunday we celebrate Jacob’s first birthday. Difficult to describe how much I am looking forward to this. Expect some good picts.  Side note: Yes his first birthday is in Thailand. Mine was probably in Temperance, Michigan. He is spoiled beyond repair already.
Paul and Cass Ashton are out to visit us in Singapore for a couple weeks with their kids at the end of July which will be great fun. We’re also trying to plan a trip back to Minneapolis, God’s Country, before the end of summer. It’s nearly 2 years since the last visit so that will be excellent. Of course work will have to make a place in all this somehow. Christina is now part time which is great for Jacob and I am close to getting newly immersed in something or other which should be sorted in July. Ahh yes and I went a bit mental in the IT purchasing department recently and got two new Macs (iMac and Air). It’s really just meeting basic requirements and is actually for Jacob, he loves the iMac so I had to get him one. That’s my story and I am sticking to it. 


